---
title: Hustling with KDE (1)
---
# Hustling with KDE (1)

I'm working on opensuse Tumbleweed with KDE using Kdevelop5 as my main IDE.
This post summarizes problems I've had since the latest updates.

## Generic Problem (generic part)

Starting `kdevelop` caused the following error message to appear in a warning dialogue:

    kf5.kio.core: couldn't create slave: klauncher said: Error loading '/usr/lib64/qt5/plugins/kf5/kio/file.so'.

At first I tried ignoring it, but `kdevelop` wasn't usable any more.
I couldn't open files - including my project file.
Wasn't convinced by my document-less IDE, so I had to start working.

First, as the full path tells, I was able to find that `so` in my `LD_LIBRARY_PATH`.
Second, `ldd` looks very happy with this file (no unresolvable dependencies).
I also, third, built a tiny `C`-program that just loads this `so` successfully.
So the file is fine, but `kdevelop` doesn't like it.
(Still I have no clue what the actuall error with `file.so` is.
I'm assuming some API changed unexpectedly.)

Googling attributes `file.so` to the `kio-core` package of which I was using version `5.34.0-1.2`.
Apparently, updating to `5.35.0-182.2` resolved all issues for me.

## Getting Newer kio-core (opensuse specific part)

I checked the `kio-core` versions [available][1].
Make sure to include "unstable packages".
The `KDE:Frameworks5` repo presents a glimmering `5.35.0`.

So I've added this repo (priority default or lower)

    zypper addrepo http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/KDE:Frameworks5/openSUSE_Factory/KDE:Frameworks5.repo
    zypper refresh

... and installed my solution candidate:

    zypper in kio-core-5.35.0-182.2

Luckily this triggered no further vendor changes for dependencies.

[1]: https://software.opensuse.org/package/kio-core
